# Vincent's SecuritEase Tech Assessment

30-Sep-2023

### Foreword
I'm not hugely familiar with Java/IntelliJ etc. I've played a little bit with java in the past, but only recently started contributing to an existing Java/RestAssured test suite at work. 

## Pre-Requisites
These steps were previously done on my laptop
1. Create a git account
2. Install Git

## Steps Performed
1. Download and install IntelliJ IDEA 2023.2.2 (Ultimate Edition)
2. Create new project using Spring Initializr generator
3. Create local repo and commit initial set of autogenerated files
4. Create new private repo in my personal space and set as origin for local repo
5. Create the README.md file (ie. this file) and start documenting the tasks
6. Add dependencies for testng, rest-assured, assertj, junit to the pom. 
7. Create New java class APITest and copy skeleton code from instructions. 
8. Swap to using testng, update baseURI, try to run the test, fix any issues encountered. 
9. Created a pojo for the response using online JSON to pojo converter and the lombok @Data annotation. 
10. Transform the response to the new pojo, and assert it was successful
11. Using the @Builder annotation, create a replica of one of the user records, and then assert that the response contains the expected user record.
12. Add a new scenario to fetch the second page of the user list, and assert that id=11 is present and correct. 
13. Investigate Dev Containers
14. Investigate Reporting

## Notes:
* There were a few issues that needed fixing when I copied the skeleton code
  * text copied & pasted from the PDF went a bit funny in places 
  * deleted the `>` after defining the baseURI
  * JUnit assertion needed it's input parameters to be re-arranged to `assertEquals(msg,expected,actual)`
* There were some CVE's reported for spring and testng dependencies when I added them to the pom. I investigated, but I couldn't quickly figure out how to fix them and was keen to ask a more experienced java dev about them. 
* I swapped to using AssertJ - a personal preference
* I am not deeply experienced (yet) with pojo's, lombok, jackson etc. for evaluating the JSON schema of the response. After a little investigation it seems that the current implementation confirms all parts in the JSON response are present in the pojo, but does not seem to verify that all attributes of the pojo are present in the response. I think there will be some settings (annotations) to help improve this. 
* I feel that some of the validations I've added are a bit brittle and hard-wire the expected data. I would be keen to extract these to external files per environment.
* I started the project with the Spring Initializr, but not sure what it's done for me in this project. 
* RE: Dev Containers: I have occasionally used Docker in the past, always with existing implementations, and with knowledgeable people to support me. I did look into using Dev Containers here, but it was clear to me that it going to be a bit of time and a learning curve for me to set up something from scratch. I decided to park that task for now. 
* RE: Reporting: Just enabling the default reporters was rather minimalist, but it meets a need. My preferred reporting method would have been to create a custom listener to send test results to a Splunk event collector, I find Splunk to be a great tool for analysing trends, and being able to delve deeply into issues. 
